---
title: What is So Special About the iPad? Everything.
permalink: /blog/what-is-so-special-about-the-ipad-everything/
image: what-is-so-special-about-the-ipad-everything.jpg
hidden: 1
---

*This post was written a really long time ago and was one of the first posts on the first iteration of my blog. Excuse the grammer and spelling.*

The iPad is just another way to put money in Apple's pocket, right? Wrong. Isn't it just a big iPod Touch? Not really. It is innovation in the making. The giant 9.1" glossy multi-touch display is great for gaming and surfing the web. It's fast and lean, thanks to the Apple A4 processor. And like always, packs an expanse of hidden features to help you get work done quickly and efficiently. I definitely give Apple the two thumbs up.

Without even turning the iPad on, you can tell that someone at Apple wanted it to be perfect. The 9.1" glossy multi-touch display is the most precise touchscreen I've ever seen. It is able to track your finger as it moves in every which way, and is able to track up to eleven fingers simultaneously, that is if you have eleven fingers. This is all made possible by the Apple A4 processor, which Apple invented so they didn't have to use Intel's processors. It's fairly different from the Intel processors that are in the iPhone and iPod touch. First of all, it uses the custom Apple ARM architecture, while the Intel processors use x86. The A4 also has integrated graphics, WI-FI, and Bluetooth, so it can be called a 'system on a chip'. The benefits of having Apple make it's own chip also allows them to squeeze every last bit of speed from it, making it even faster than conventional chips. The Apple A4 has a clock speed of 1 GHz, and when compared to chips in other mobile devices, is almost double or triple their speed, considering most mobile device chipsets have a clock speed of 500 - 750 MHz which is 0.5 - 0.75 GHz.

With the big screen, iPad can be a great device to work from. Apple iWork is Microsoft Office for the iPad, so people can use the iPad to type documents, edit Excel spreadsheets, and compose PowerPoint presentations. There are various assignment managers available in the App Store, so the iPad is a great tool for college or high school, the key reason why I am typing this on my iPad right now. Although there isn't a file manager build-in by default, files can be synced to specific apps through iTunes. If you don't like the idea of having to plug in your iPad every time you want to add or remove files, you can get some of the various file manager apps that are in the App Store.

Through the App Store, there are a variety of games and little fun apps for when you need to kill time. Most games use the accelerometer built into the iPad to either steer cars or fly planes. Unfortunately there aren't a lot of games designed specifically for the iPad, but the iPad can also run most apps designed for the iPod Touch or iPhone. Rocket Car Stunts, Jelly Car, and Modern Conflict are some of my favorite titles. A lot of games use their own social networking service to allow users to be able to compete or interact with other users that play the same game. The only problem is that games made by different developers use different social networking services, but Game Center, a universal social networking service by Apple, is hoping to fix this.

The iPad runs iOS as it's operating system, which has a lot of power-user features which are hidden. The only flaw in iOS is the fact that Apple controls everything: what apps are available in the App Store, what features are available, and what features can be added. At least some, or most, iDevice users wish that iOS had that amazing feature they were looking for sometime in the life of their iDevice. As of now, the only way to really get freedom from Apple is to jailbreak your iDevice which is risky and violates your iDevice license agreement. Many features I wish to see on the iPad are yet to be released in iOS 4.2, which includes multitasking, better contact syncing support, Game Center, and advanced features in apps.

In conclusion, I think that the iPad is another great, innovative, and feature-rich Apple product. Though it is a little pricey, it is well worth it. It's great for college or high school students, die-hard gamers, and people that wish the screen on their iPod was a little bigger. When choosing your iPad, don't bother to get the 64GB version, as you will never need space unless you are doing HD video editing or something like that. Also, if you would like GPS, you have to get the 3G version, as GPS requires that little black plastic strip across the top. 3G is also another good option, as the iPad uses the AT&T 3G service, which is doesn?t have a contract, and starts at $15 for 250 MB of data transfer for one month. As you see, the iPad is great, and that's why I bought one.

{% include ad.html %}