---
title: Overload
permalink: /blog/overload/
image: overload/post.jpg
hidden: 1
---

We're always talking about time and our productivity. We think we're able to always get so much done and take in so much information. I didn't think I was any different.

Once I discovered Hacker News all those years ago, I became hooked on keeping up with all the content. I'd stay up late working on a project, finish up and get in bed, and then find myself spending another hour or two scrolling through all the interesting blog posts on Lifehacker, Hack a Day, and Hacker News. I was new to Instapaper at the time, meaning I would read lengthy articles right there in the Pulse app, rather than saving it for later reading.

Fast forward a year or two. My addiction to interesting content only grew. When I signed up for Twitter, I was suddenly bombarded with a new form of information: social media. Now, in addition to my daily browsing of Hacker News, I was trying to keep in sync with what was happening on my Twitter timeline. On the days when I had only checked Twitter in the morning, I found myself spending a good half of an hour just reading people's tweets.

{% include image.html url="/content/overload/dock.jpg" caption="3,290 articles unread in Pocket!" %}

Come present day and the arrival of Pocket, this addiction did not subside. With the discovery of better feed readers such as Flipboard and Feedly, I was processing more content than ever before. I wasn't necessarily reading the stuff; most of the time I was just throwing it into Pocket, convinced that I would take a look at it at some later time. Looking back, Pocket was taking in content at a rate of 500 articles a week. My obsession with Hacker News was getting to be ridiculous.

Did all this information really provide all the value that it appeared to? I was reading all of Hacker News, regardless of how many upvotes a link received. Therefore, a very large majority of those links really didn't provide much value. I was just reading them for the sake of reading everything that was posted. In the case of social media, I never spent the time to who was really worth following. Essentially, I was trying to read everything just because of the possibility that there might be great content, not because there actually was.

I spent way too much time reading useless content. It didn't provide any value to me. I knew I needed to find a way to pair it down.

Hacker News is awesome, but there's just too much stuff on it. At a rate of 800 links per week, even filtering it yields too much content. Fortunately, there's a solution. [Hacker Monthly](http://hackermonthly.com/) is a collection of the best of the best on Hacker News, delivered at a much slower pace.

For Twitter, lists can be used to filter out who I follow. I also went through and unfollowed people that I followed just because they followed me.

I also read a few other feeds alongside Hacker News. Based solely on the amount of content posted, I've narrowed everything down to a few quality sources, including [HackaDay](http://hackaday.com/) and [The Feature](http://thefeature.net/).

~In the case of Digg (loving new Digg by the way), I am still undecided.~ Digg posts at about half the rate of Hacker News, which is still a lot. I want a way to keep up with current events, not all of them tech-related, in a way that is concise and interesting. Digg's Top Stories seem to do just that, although the RSS feed they offer seems to include all articles, interesting or not. ~I have yet to find a way to get only top stories.~ Fortunately, I've found an alternative: [TL;DR](http://toolong-didntread.com/) (perfectly named for this situation, right?). It provides abbreviated articles on a bunch of current news topics. Thanks to [Will Smidlein](http://twitter.com/ws) for finding this awesome news source.

Cutting down on the amount of content I consume has saved me a lot of time. The hours it took me to read lots and lots of content can now be used for a variety of things with a lot more value. What time I used to spend reading can now be used coding, sleeping, and getting to things that I never before had time for.

{% include ad.html %}